IMPORTANT TERMS IN THE GAME
Burn: When a card is burned, it is placed into its owner’s ash heap (discard pile). The ash heap can be examined by any Methuselah at any time. When a counter is burned, it is returned to the blood bank. Sometimes, an instruction may say to remove a card from the game. While some cards and effects can retrieve cards from the ash heap, cards that are removed from the game cannot be retrieved or affected in any way. When a card is burned or removed from the game, any counters or other cards on it are burned.

Control: Vampires put into play by a
Methuselah are controlled by that Methuselah.

A master card in play is controlled by the
Methuselah who played it, even if it is played on a card controlled by another Methuselah.

A minion card in play is controlled by the controller of the minion it is on. If a minion card is just in play and not on another controlled card, then it is controlled by the
Methuselah who played it.

Control can change through game effects and this is clearly noted when using those effects.

Locking and Unlocking: During play, you will turn cards sideways 90º to lock them, indicating that the cards have been used for some particular purpose or effect. Unlocking a card restores it to its original position, indicating that the card is reset and will be able to be locked again later. Only unlocked minions can perform actions or block the actions of other minions.

Rules of Card Ownership: The cards you start the game with are referred to as “owned”.
Your cards can become controlled by other
Methuselahs but are never owned by them.

At the end of the game, the cards you own are returned to you. If you are ousted before the end of the game, any cards that you own that other Methuselahs control remain in play until burned as normal.

The Golden Rule for Cards: Whenever the cards contradict the rules, the cards take precedence.

Wording templates “During X, do Y”: The “during X do Y” template is used in several cards. When this template is used, only one Y can be done per
X with this card. For instance, you may move blood from your vampire to your pool with
Vessel only once per unlock phase.

“Lock X to do Y”: These effects require an unlocked minion to be used, they cannot be used by locked minions.

“Search”: Some effects have you search your library or crypt. You do not have to announce the card you are searching, and searching can result in not finding the card. If you search your library or crypt, you must shuffle it afterwards.


ADVANCED RULES “Cancel a card”: A cancelled card has no effect, but it is still considered played.

If an action card is cancelled, the minion does not lock (they do not pay for the action card), and they can play the same action card again.

If a non-action card is cancelled, its cost should be paid as normal.

If a combat card used for a strike is cancelled, the minion who played it must choose a strike which may come from another strike card.

Detailed turn sequence

Each of the phases is described in full detail in the following sections.

1. UNLOCK PHASE
You start your turn with your unlock phase.
At the beginning of your unlock phase, you must unlock all of your cards. Any cards or effects that require or allow you to do something during your unlock phase take effect after you have unlocked your cards. You may choose the order in which these effects take place. Along with effects generated by cards, there are other effects that are resolved during the unlock phase:

If you have the Edge, you may gain 1 pool from the blood bank.


ADVANCED RULES
Some cards have a burn option icon.

This icon means that a Methuselah who does not control a minion who meets the requirements of this card who does not control a minion who meets the requirements of this card or who is a legal target for it, may discard it during ANY Methuselah’s unlock phase and and replace it. Each Methuselah is limited to one such discard each unlock phase.

— 1

ADVANCED RULES
Contested Cards
Some of the cards in the game represent unique resources, such as specific locations, equipment, or people. These cards will be identified as “unique” in their card text. In addition, all crypt cards represent unique minions. If more than one unique card with the same name is brought into play, that means control of the card is being contested. For the duration of the contest, all of the contested cards are turned face down and are out of play.
If another unique card with the same name is brought into play, it is immediately contested and turned face down as well.

The cost to contest a card is 1 pool, which you pay during each of your unlock phases. Instead of paying the cost to contest the card, you may choose to yield the card. A yielded card is burned. Any cards or counters stacked on the yielded card are also burned.

If all other cards contesting your unique card are yielded, then the card is unlocked and turned face up during your next unlock phase, ending the contest.

DECK CONSTRUCTION
CAUTION: Be careful about putting duplicates of the same unique cards in your deck. You cannot control more than one of the same unique card at a time, and you cannot voluntarily contest cards with yourself (if some effect would force you to contest a card with yourself, then you simply burn the incoming copy of the unique card). On the other hand, you may wish to have a second copy handy in case the first is burned.

7 —